Each YouTube video has a unique ID.
And it's in the URL: an 11-character string
that uniquely identifies any video you want.
Now, YouTube has millions and millions of videos.
The latest data they have reported say they have
400 hours of video coming up every minute.
So, will there be a time when these IDs are depleted?
Well, to find out, we must talk about counting systems.
People count on Base 10. From 0 to 9.
That will be, hopefully, you will be familiar.
Computers have 2 base, in binary,
but this is difficult for humans to read,
It's too long to write it very and very quickly,
and for this reason, computers are often shown in base 16, hexadecimal.
You have 0 to 9, and after the A to the F,
and then continue adding to the next column.
Humans can not easily understand it,
but it is efficient if we have to write it somewhere,
and 16 - 2 to the power of 4 - it is also easy for computers to understand.
So what happens with base 64?
That would be a ridiculous account system, right? Except
64 is another of these easy numbers for computers,
and is 2 at the power of 6.
And humans can reach 64 very easily:
0 to 9, and then the capital letters of A to Z,
then the minuscule of the 'a' to the 'z', and two more characters.
Most of the base 64 uses the bar and the plus sign,
but they do not work so well in URLs,
and for that reason YouTube uses scripts and underscores.
And that YouTube URL, that unique ID,
It's really just a random number in base 64.
And they could have chosen base 10 or base 16,
but they did not do it: they chose base 64,
since it allows you to place a huge number in a small space
and still make it readable to humans.
The author and programmer Sam Hughes, by the way,
pushed it to the limit, and invented Base 65536,
which basically includes all the characters of all languages.
This is ridiculous and unnecessary,
But since that could stop the programmers?
So, why did YouTube start counting from 1 and go up?
Well, in the first place, they should synchronize their count
Among all the servers that handle the video loads
or they should assign a block of names to each server.
Either way, there is a lot of tracking to do,
And much to make sure it's never doubled.
Instead, they only generate a random number for each video,
look at it if it has already been taken, and if not, it is used.
And secondly, this is a very, very bad idea
to count only 1, 2, 3 and so on in URLs.
Incremental counters, as they are called, can be a great security problem:
If you see video 283 up there, then you might ask:
What is video 284? And video 282?
And it is easy to enumerate, as it is called,
to review the entire list.
Hidden YouTube videos, those that do not appear publicly
But the link can be sent to people, they could not work.
And by the way. Lots of poorly designed web pages use incremental counters.
And it's a terrible idea.
And I could tell the competitors exactly how many customers you have,
because he only has to count them.
I could let people download all your records easily,
because they can be reviewed.
And on a webpage someone from Florida has sent me this week,
It allows you to look at the personal data of other people.
Do not use incremental counters if you are building a website. Use a random number.
And that leads me to the question:
how big are the numbers that YouTube uses?
Well, let's calculate it.
One of the characters in base 64 allows you to have 64 identification numbers.
Two characters This is 64 for 64, or 4,096.
Three characters 64 for 64 for 64 or 64 for the power of 3.
And that is already more than a quarter of a million.
And if we go to 4? Well, now we are over 16 million.
If you use base 64, you can assign an identification number
to all those who live in London there down twice,
and all you need are four characters.
This is done very quickly. We can continue doing this,
And with seven characters we already have four billion.
Now, it assumes that YouTube checks through a dictionary,
and does not allow real words to appear up there -
especially nothing rude.
But this will be a small minority of URLs,
and for our purposes, we can more or less just ignore it.
With 11 characters on YouTube, we have 73 trillions of 786 quadriles
976 billion 294 billion 838 million
206 thousand and 464 videos.
This is enough for all human beings on planet earth
They upload a video every minute for about 18,000 years.
And YouTube planned ahead of time.
Can they run out of URLs? Technically, yes.
Practically No. What if they did?
They just added another character.
[Translated by Anna MacGrath]
Ha! A dam! A dam! If!